# Transcript Jank
Scripts and templates for working with transcripts. This repository contains two subsets of scripts: checking accuracy of transcription and checking for sensitive language.

## Sensitive Language Alerting
Materials for testing plain text documents for sensitive language, e.g. ethnic slurs.

### Origin
AI speech-to-text documents, such as transcripts, contain hallucinations prior to editing. Because it takes approximately 2-5 hours for every hour of materials to correct a transcript, it would be ideal for transcripts to not have to undergo full review before posting publicly, albeit with warning text. However, some hallucinations could be incredibly damaging, such as ethnic slurs. In those cases, transcripts should be reviewed fully before being released to the public. Inspired by tools for reparative description reporting such as [MaRMAT](https://www.marmatproject.org/), here's a little script for checking UTF-8 encoded documents in a file directory against a lexicon of your choosing in .csv format, which returns a .csv report with the flagged terms and their index in each document.

### How to use this
The script requires the following:
* At least two or more UTF-8 encoded documents kept in a file directory. So far, this script has worked on .txt, .vtt, and .srt. It has not worked on .docx.
* One .csv document that contains the lexicon with the term to search in the first column (```row[0]```). The original test data I used to populate this was a subset of terms from MaRMAT's ```reparative-metadata-lexicon_20260412.csv```; for my own work, I have since created a simplified lexicon for what I'd consider serious enough to trigger full review. I included a template in this repository with filler terms (i.e. not sensitive) so you can see what it looks like. No matter whether it's a proper noun or not, I suggest putting in the term all lowercase.

Steps:
* In the script, insert the filepath to the lexicon in ```file``` function in the ```lexicon_input()``` function. Insert the filepath, including a .csv filename, in ```result.to_csv``` in the ```match()``` function for the report to be created. Do not store these in the same directory as the transcripts to test.
* Run the script. The regex in it is set to ignore case.
* You will receive back a .csv report with the filename and all instances of the term being used in the document.

## Compare The Transcripts
Some super basic, janky scripts for comparing transcripts generated by different systems. Scripts utilize the Jiwer module and test for the following:
* Word Error Rate
* Match Error Rate
* Word Information Loss
* Word Information Preserved

### Origin
The Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies has over 4,500 testimonies in 20 languages. The Archive has been working through the corpus using AI speech-to-text tools and vendors, like Sonix, Trint, and Whisper (both WhisperX through Aviary and faster-whisper through aTrain). Only about a quarter of the collection has been transcribed fully. We decided to do some system testing so we could decide which system to consider to finish transcribing the rest.

### The files
* **TranscriptComparisonSingle.py** This compares a single reference transcript and a single test transcript. Outputs a CSV with the comparison data.
* **TranscriptComparisonBulk2.py** This runs over a batch of reference and single transcripts. It requires an input CSV with the file path information and outputs a CSV with the comparison data.
* **sample_file_listing.csv** A template for the csv you load into ```TranscriptComparisonBulk2.py```

### How to use this
For ```TranscriptComparisonSingle.py```:
* Put the direct file paths, including the file name, to the reference and test transcripts in ```raw_reference =``` and ```raw_hypothesis =``` as appropriate
* Put the direct file path, including the file name, in ```df.to_csv``` for the error reporting.
* Run the script.
* You will receive back a .csv report with the metrics for the pair of files.

For ```TranscriptComparisonBulk2.py```:
* Create the list of filepaths in the CSV. One column should be the reference transcript, the other should be the test transcript. Refer to ```sample_file_listing.csv``` to see the column name, how it should be formatted, etc. (When you run the script, it will prompt you to enter the filepath for the CSV)
* In the script itself, put the output filepath, including file name, in ```result.to_csv```
* Run the script.
* You will receive back a .csv report with the metrics for each pair of files, alongside their respective file names.

