# Compare The Transcripts
Some super basic, janky scripts for comparing transcripts generated by different systems. Scripts utilize the Jiwer module and test for the following:
* Word Error Rate
* Match Error Rate
* Word Information Loss
* Word Information Preserved

## Origin
The Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies has over 4,500 testimonies in 20 languages. The Archive has been working through the corpus using AI speech-to-text tools and vendors, like Sonix, Trint, and Whisper (WhisperX through Aviary and faster-whisper through aTrain). Only about a quarter of the collection has been transcribed fully. We decided to do some system testing so we could decide which system to consider to finish transcribing the rest.

## The files
* **TranscriptComparisonSingle.py** This compares a single reference transcript and a single test transcript. Outputs a CSV with the comparison data.
* **TranscriptComparisonBulk2.py** This runs over a batch of reference and single transcripts. It requires an input CSV with the file path information and outputs a CSV with the comparison data.
* **sample_file_listing.csv** A template for the csv you load into ```TranscriptComparisonBulk2.py```

## How to use this
For ```TranscriptComparisonSingle.py```:
* Put the direct file paths, including the file name, to the reference and test transcripts in ```raw_reference =``` and ```raw_hypothesis =``` as appropriate
* Put the direct file path, including the file name, in ```df.to_csv``` for the error reporting.
* Run the script.
* You will receive back a .csv report with the metrics for the pair of files.

For ```TranscriptComparisonBulk2.py```:
* Create the list of filepaths in the CSV. One column should be the reference transcript, the other should be the test transcript. Refer to ```sample_file_listing.csv``` to see the column name, how it should be formatted, etc. (When you run the script, it will prompt you to enter the filepath for the CSV)
* In the script itself, put the output filepath, including file name, in ```result.to_csv```
* Run the script.
* You will receive back a .csv report with the metrics for each pair of files, alongside their respective file names.